Lu’s grandmother was a strange kind of woman. She always wore a silk scarf firmly tied around her head. She lived in an old wooden cabin far into the woods. She usually stayed up until late in the night only to sit by the kitchen table in utter quiet. She stowed weird steel objects like old rusty tubes, crooked rings and jagged spirals away in a drawer. When Lu once asked her why she had collected this heap of funny things, her grandmother replied:

“Because, love, for every wickedness that happens to you, you have to grow steel. Collect them and remember them and stow them away. Use them for protection. Then,” she said and patted the silk scarf on her head with two fingers, “grow silk for every kindness that happens to you. Expose it and wear it every day.”

Most of these utterances, Lu did not understand. Sometimes, perhaps while she was boiling potatoes or sitting on the porch pretending to read the paper, her grandmother would suddenly say things like, “Lu, trust me, the happiest things in life are based on accumulation” or “one of the main sources of happiness come from active and routine appreciation”. Lu would nod in a grave kind of manner and say “yes, I absolutely agree”, but what she really agreed to was the inherent belief that whatever her grandmother said must have some inherent substance to it. She trusted her grandmother to say smart things, and she didn’t think she had to understand them.

This belief would be the beginning of a hard learned lesson for Lu. When she was twelve, she spent one of her many summers at her grandmother’s cabin. Since she slept in the attic, there was only a single, narrow window to gaze out of. Every night, before going to bed, Lu would look out of this window and say goodnight to the forest. Once, as she peeked out of the window whispering good night to the birds and the trees and the insects and all the animals, she spotted a creature in the distance.

At first, she didn’t believe it to be real. She had never seen anything like it. The creature shone as if somebody had ignited it with star dust. Large and elegant, it moved past the trees in an astonishing calm. Its horns were like curly, frozen brooks stretching up towards the sky, its legs were long and slender, and its eyes were golden blue. It lit up the forest as if the moon itself was passing by the trees. Lu gazed at the animal in awe. For a moment, it felt as if the animal sensed her presence and met her gaze, and Lu was immediately flooded with a feeling of joy and tranquility rushing through her body. The world stood still for a moment and Lu could feel the brushes of her own soul against her intellect. Then, the animal disappeared among the trees, and the feeling was gone.

Lu could hardly sleep that night. She twitched and turned as she thought about that magnificent animal, and the feeling it had given her. The next morning the rushed down to breakfast only to break into an unstoppable rant about the animal. She told her grandmother that it had been the most wonderful thing she had ever seen, its presence was enough to ignite her with an eternal will to live and sense and experience.

Her grandmother furrowed her brows ever more and more. “It’s the swan all over again,” she murmured. “What?” Lu said, beaming. “Look, don’t be fooled by the spark in things that come and go. They are intriguing because they are elusive. Learn to enjoy them in the now and let them go for the future. Never expect them to remain.” “I quite agree,” Lu said as she took a large bite of her slice of bread, eyes faint with the memory of the shining creature.

Lu’s rant did not stop at breakfast. She kept spilling questions throughout the day, asking whether her grandmother had ever seen the animal, if she had ever read of it somewhere, was it likely to come if they set out food, what kind of food, where did it get its shine, was it maybe extraterrestrial?

One week passed in this kind of manic fashion. Lu could not let go of the feeling that the creature had given her, and every aspect of life that had previously given her joy, were now spoiled with a dull craving for more. When her grandmother offered her chocolate, it was only a possible bait for the shining animal. Walks in the forest were only an excuse to possibly see the animal again. When asked to go to bed, Lu would sit up for hours staring out of the window, waking up with blood strained eyes, a disappointed frown and a lacking appetite for breakfast the next day.

Lu’s grandmother knew something that most of us know. She knew that if you see somebody struggle, and you cannot talk them out of it, it is because they have to experience a lesson for themselves. And being the odd kind of woman she was, she did not hesitate when she, one late Friday, asked Lu to head into the forest to fetch some berries, only to lock the door for the night. Standing outside the door with a basket filled with berries, Lu was shocked to find the door locked. She pulled and tugged and threw herself against it, but to no avail. The door was locked, and her grandmother was nowhere to be seen. Inside the cabin was dark.

It was a summer’s night, and the temperature did not go very low. Lu had brought a warm jacket after insistence from her grandmother, and she had a basket of berries. Otherwise, she was alone. The wind howled through the forest as dusk transformed into night.

Lu started the night sitting down by the cabin wall. She munched berries just to soothe herself. “Hello?!” she yelled, but she knew that it was useless. The cabin was as quiet as a graveyard. Lu stared into the forest, imagining that the shining animal would appear again in all its glory. She clearly remembered that time, in the window, when it had looked at her with those golden blue eyes, and all her troubles had disappeared in an instant.

At the ground beside her, a larva was crawling about. Lu picked the larva up and sighed. “No shining creature, but at least you are here,” she said and gave the larva one of the leaves in the berry basket. It chewed away eagerly, and Lu felt happy to share her meal with someone.

Having eaten all the berries, Lu decided to head into the forest. She left the basket by the cabin and wandered into the dimly lit wood. As she followed a path she had used to walk in daytime, she could hear the tooting of an owl. The leaves of the trees shivered playfully in the mild wind. Lu kept a keen eye out, imagining that the shining animal would appear behind a tree anytime soon. She thought that she deserved to see it now more than ever. Now, when she was all alone.

Walking further into the forest, a few bats darted by her in an intense match. They sent out supersonic waves to find their prey, and Lu glanced at them, feeling the corners of her mouth curl at how different creatures sense the world. A few inches away, she spotted a couple of yellow eyes, soon discovering that it was a fox. It watched her, as if it was looking over her. Lu stopped for a moment. Although it was dark and the forest was large, nothing was scary or lonely.

Then, suddenly, Lu spotted the contours of moonshine in the distance. Among the trees in a faint glow, she could see the same light that the animal had expelled. She immediately felt her heart racing as she dashed towards the light. Sprinting through the forest, she leaped over roots and sheltered herself from branches with her elbow, only to stop abruptly as she discovered the source of the light.

The pond. It was full moon tonight, and its intense light was reflected in a sparkling manner from the pond that was located in the middle of the forest.

Lu fell to her knees. She stared at the light streaming from the pond reflection, then slowly, her gaze searched the corners of the pond. A part of her believed that the animal had to show up now. There was no other option. But her gaze trailed the bank in vain, and she laid her head down on a heap of moss conveniently growing right by her. There would be no animal. No tranquility. No saving.

Right before she fell asleep, she could her the owl tooting soothingly again, and she knew it was not far away. Then, she felt a furry creature smooch in beside her, warming her body.

When Lu woke up, a few birds where chirping away in the tree tops. Sunrise cast a warm, lovely hide on the pond, and Lu, for once, felt rested. She had not spent the night in eager wait for the animal. On the ground beside her lay the mark of something that might well have been a fox. Lu inhaled through her nose and felt herself cleansed by the damp morning air.

She returned to her grandmothers’ cabin with small twigs in her hair and a rumbly stomach. The door to the cabin was wide open, and Lu sensed the scent of eggs and baked bread. She sat down on the bench, and her grandmother placed fresh bread on the table. “I am glad to see you back,” her grandmother said, and her voice was filled with so much love that Lu did not doubt it one second. She remained quiet for a moment before she said in a preachy manner: “You know. The most beautiful things are so small that you hardly even notice them. But they are the ones that keep you going in the end, not the all too rare wonders.”